hi it's David the glass studio I just
wanted to show you a technique for doing
long skinny pieces now this is a long
skinny piece and this is just the strap
that came out of this window see it's
got a lot of long skinny pieces but
don't they look fabulous
alright so now we're gonna do a couple
of pieces here that are long and skinny
and they have this crooked part so I'm
going to show you how how I like to do
first of all I just take a straight path
right along and you see what I do is I
try to attack the piece that will break
easiest the piece that would be easiest
for me to have a problem with now on
this one
see along here see this is a nice
straight edge but this is the crooked
edge so we cut the crooked edge first
now on this one I'm gonna come right
straight up to the curve I'm gonna go
around the curves now that's not that
big of a deal this is the kind of a
break that you would accomplish most of
the time and have no problem with it one
of the reasons that it doesn't break on
us is because we choose to cut this
piece first and then this piece second
but now here's the here's the technique
that I wanted to show you we score along
the glass
and then what we do is we hold it and
tap all on until it gives way
so these guys who were here in the shop
with me are laughing because they think
that it's funny that I just like chose
the easiest piece first but now I'm
going to do the one that was difficult
before you see because see this is a
real thin little piece but what we do is
we take the curve out first
now I tap on it just to just to run the
score get it wait you hear the sound
change now you can just take the pliers
right
and so now we're gonna do that same
technique again
where we hold the piece and really treat
it gently so that it doesn't set so that
breaks exactly where we want it we just
hold it these both pieces are supported
a lot of times when you're doing one
like this you'll feel the piece break
right in between your fingers you want
to just hang on to it and hear the
sounds changing I can feel the two
pieces are separated as I tap
there you have it